# Product Overview
## Self Sovereign Identity Middleware

By using Blockchain and other compatible decentralized techs we will allow public administrations, non-profit associations, private companies and individuals to securely create, deliver and manage verifiable credentials while reducing bureaucracy and increasing security. Our solution is a P2P middleware, that allows secure and verified data communication in distributed applications.

It means that citizens can save their verifiable credentials (VCs) issued by other actors (governments, universities, workplaces...) in wallets under their full control. By doing so, citizens will be able to have a usable self-sovereign identity. These digital verifiable credentials contain information generated by different authorities, verifiable and attached to one identity.

Lorena is a system that allows any participant (legal or natural person) to interact using these VC with, security, transparency, portability, interoperability, and privacy-by-design.

With Lorena we will allow for decentralized identities, P2P secure GDPR-compliant private communications and automatic process definition and execution between organizations (B2B), particulars (B2C) and objects (IoT).

By creating P2P channels between identities we can reinvent the way internet works. We can go from a centralized model where organizations need to adapt to each others technology (APIs, services, email…) and need to be interconnected (city to bank, to insurance, to local store…) to a model where the citizen is in the middle and through open source recipes (process) can manage their identities:

1. I get a notification (credential) from the City Council saying I have to pay a local tax.
2. I verify the credential (security) and send it to the bank with additional metadata (please pay this tax)
3. The bank issues a new credential saying they have paid the tax
4. I notify the City Council

All communications are signed and encrypted. Credentials are signed and timestamped, so there is no possibility of tampering or forgery.

In this model the City Council and the Bank don’t need to connect (or know) each other. They just need to focus on offering a better service to the citizen by adding new *recipes* (processes and procedures).
